So, we've introduced the type task.
And, love when you mix these.
All right, so [LAUGH].
I'm just gonna leave it there for the
people who, it's gonna bother everyone.
So we've got this big mess of a,
I'm gonna bump this down one more,
and move this over a little bit, okay.
So here's what we're dealing with.
We have this giant thing, and we're
gonna read a file, and then we're gonna
write out the contents, and we're gonn
replace the 3's with the 6's, and
then we're gonna write the new file out,
and it's great.
We got a success.
And unfortunately, I think I might have
actually ran this without knowing it.
Yeah, I gotta config one,
by, all right [LAUGH].
Let's get this out.
So, how would we rewrite
this in terms of Task?
And Task is gonna capture all of our IO,
in node in particular, or the web.
There's an IO Mona that does
almost the exact same thing.
Problem is,
it doesn't really deal with async, and
everything we tend to work with is async.
And instead of bringing in IO and
Task, we're just gonna use Task,
cuz it basically does all
the things IO do, just with async.
So, let's bring this in and
say, let's rewrite this.
All right.
So, the first thing we gotta do, let's
go ahead and make a helper function for
this right off the bat.
So we gonna say readFile, and
that's gonna take some path and
some coding,
and it's gonna return a new task,
Task, reject, resolve.
Now, tasks have different
implementations in different libraries.
I'm bringing in a library
that I've made just for
this class, and I'll make that available.
But, I've been using Folktale,
there's been talk of using Sanctuary.
There's Flutter, basically a lazy promise.
So, let's pass in the path and
the encoding.
And also, there's a way to automate this,
we don't have to, there's from Promise,
Task from Promise.
So we can just turn it, and we can
turn a call back into a Promise, and
a Promise into a Task, or
we can call back right into a Task.
I'm just doing this manually so
you can see how it works.
So if you have an error,
we'll reject with the err.
And if we have this, otherwise,
we'll have success with the contents.
And there you have it.
So there's readFile.
And, before we go any further,
I'm just gonna do the same with writeFile,
because it's just a pain to define these.
And, I think I do have the Task
from promised on this library, but
I'm still gonna rewrite it.
Mainly cuz it's the exact
same code [LAUGH].
WriteFile, path, contents.
Great, great, okay.
So, how do we use these?
Let's leave this on the screen and
give ourselves some space,
and rewrite this stuff.
So const app will be a function
that starts by reading the file,
readFile, and we gave it the stuff.
And now we have a Task with the contents.
So let's go ahead and
map over that and get the contents.
And, don't wanna throw errors or
logs that,
I think that log in there
was left in by accident.
Now we wanna replace any 3's with the 6.
Just so we all know,
the config.json looks like this,
it's like port: 3000, that's all,
so we wanted to say port: 6000.
Okay, so read the file in,
and we'll run this part.
Then, we wanna write a new file.
Cool.
So, what we do, a chain.
So you have the new contents, and
then we'll write the file
with the new contents.
Gotta give it a path.
So config1.json.
And finally,
we wanna log('success!'), I suppose.
So we'll just, success!
And actually, logging can be done
in a Task to keep it pure, but
I don't wanna just do it outside.
So our app is totally nice and clean, and
pure, and nothing is just gonna happen.
If I were to map log right here,
console.log, success,
that's gonna run during the time of
construction, not run during the runtime.
I would have to wrap this in another
Task right there to make it pure.
So what I'm gonna do, so
I'm gonna call app[].fork(console.error.
And then we'll log, 'success!' down here,
it should be console.log.
Awesome.
All right, do we have a config1?
We do.
Just got written at 2:56 [LAUGH],
and now it's 6,000.
Cool, awesome.
But let's take a look
at what happened here.
So we took this beast [LAUGH], and kinda
broke it down into, instead of callbacks,
and mixing our logic amongst all this
stuff, and throwing errors, whatever.
We have this nice, clean control flow.
And you might be like, well, we have
promises, I'll just do that with promises.
Well, promises were inspired by functional
programming in the first place,
that's where they came from.
But also, this does it in a lazy way.
So, let's say I wanna continue my
computation down there, I can do that and
nothing will happen.
In fact, what if I wanna
combine it with another app?
And I wanna run those in parallel, or
I wanna put them in a tree data structure,
and follow them down the tree,
and run the right one.
I can do a lot of amazing
things if I just make it lazy.
Still trying to make that case,
not sure if I'm succeeding.
[LAUGH] But anyhow, that's where we're at.